# Headgear Privacy Policy

The Headgear browser extension has an optional, opt-in analytics feature that
can share (with Headgear's creators) a summary of how you interact with Headgear
as you use it. For example, which buttons you click on. Headgear asks you to
consent or decline to sharing your usage information before using it.

If you opt not to share, Headgear does not send any data out. Also, if you use
Headgear in an private-browsing (AKA "incognito") window, Headgear won't send
any data, even if the you previously opted-in to sharing.

## Why does Headgear send usage information?

Headgear sends usage information to give its creators insight into how it's used
by users, with the aim of prioritising and guiding future work to improve it.
For example, we can answer questions such as:

- Which are the most popular features?
- Are users experiencing errors when using Headgear?
- Is Headgear working quickly enough?

By recording the NFT IDs of Avatars that have been used in Headgear, we're able
to provide rewards targeted to Headgear's users.

## What does Headgear send?

If (and only if) you opt in to sharing, Headgear sends a summary of the actions
you take as you interact with Headgear. This includes which buttons you've
clicked on and the settings you've adjusted (such as image size). Headgear sends
details of the Avatar images you save and copy — the size, image data format and
style variant, as well as the specific identifier of the NFT Avatar.

Headgear also sends information about the web browser you're using Headgear in,
such as the name, version and window size.

Headgear uses the PostHog analytics service to send data from within Headgear,
and to receive and store the sent data. Because your usage information is sent
to PostHog's servers, PostHog can see IP Address, but we specifically filter out
and do not store your IP Address (using the [Property Filter app]).

Headgear only sends information about things happening in Headgear — it does not
send any information about anything your web browser is doing outside Headgear.

[property filter app]: https://posthog.com/docs/apps/property-filter

## How do we store and protect your data?

Headgear uses [PostHog's EU Cloud service] to collect data it sends, so your
data is kept in the EU. We will not share your raw usage data with 3rd parties.
We may publish aggregated statistics, derived from your data. We may use NFT
Avatar IDs to grant access to future Headgear or non-Headgear things, and that
may give a 3rd party the ability to infer that an individual NFT Avatar was used
in Headgear.

[posthog's eu cloud service]: https://posthog.com/eu

## Contact

As a user of Headgear, we assume you are also a Reddit user — you can message
[u/h4l] (the creator of Headgear) on Reddit with any questions.

[u/h4l]: https://www.reddit.com/user/h4l
